***Car_Wiper_Control_System***

Today’s car wipers are manual systems that work on the principle of manual switching. So here we propose an automatic wiper system that automatically switches ON on detecting rain and stops when rain stops. Our project brings forward this system to automate the wiper system having no need for manual intervention. For this purpose we use rain sensor along with microcontroller to drive the wiper motor. Our system uses rain sensor to detect rain, this signal is then processed by microcontroller to take the desired action. The rain sensor works on the principle of using water for completing its circuit, so when rain falls on it it’s circuit gets completed and sends out a signal to the microcontroller. The microcontroller now processes this data and controls the motor.This system is equally useful for Aircrafts and a smaller version of this can be used by motor bikers in their helmets so that they can drive easily in rains.

A windscreen wiper, sometimes known as a windshield wiper or wiper blade in American English, is a device that cleans the front window of a car of rain, snow, ice, washer fluid, water, and/or debris. Almost all motor vehicles, including automobiles, trucks, buses, train locomotives, and cabin watercraft as well as some aircraf have one or more of these wipers, which are usually required by law.A wiper is made up of a metal arm with one end pivoting and the other end having a long rubber blade attached. A motor, usually an electric motor, drives the arm, however pneumatic power is also utilised in some vehicles. The blade is swung back and forth across the glass, removing any water, any precipitation, or other obstructions to view. Speed is usually changeable on vehicles built after 1969, with various continuous speeds and often one or more interrupted settings. Many commercial cars employ one or more pantograph arms, while most personal autos use two synchronised radial-type arms.

A windscreen washer system is also used on some vehicles to improve and broaden the wiper(s) function to dry or icy conditions. Several well-placed nozzles spray water or antifreeze window washer fluid at the windscreen with this method. When utilised in conjunction with the wiper blades, this mechanism aids in the removal of dirt and dust from the windscreen.In this project I explain about how wiper works based on stm32, an ARM based Microcontroller
